hi I'm Pete Moore additive shooting
sports magazine is a rifle I've been
looking forward to shooting for some
time now the Barrett 98 Bravo in 308
Lapua Magnum you've probably heard of
Barrett they make the m82 semi-automatic
50 Cal sniping rifle and anti-materiel
rifle which is used by many armed forces
around the world they also make a number
of bolt-action guns in 50 Cal which in
my opinion is a little bit big to shoot
however the 980 Bravo is the first gun
they've made in 308 Lapua Magnum this is
three three eight lap Europe it fires a
250 grain bullet at approximately 3,000
feet per second and generates in excess
of three thousand five hundred three
thousand seven hundred foot-pounds of
energy the quoted effective range of
this cartridge is 1,500 meters I reckon
a good shot in a good conditions could
push that to a mile with ease also my
opinion this is a far more accurate
round on the 50 Cal a lot easier to
shoot recoils guns can be reduced
Barrett being quite smart by making this
new rifle in what is a more effective
caliber as can be seen the rifle has
more than look at m16 about it note the
layout of the pistol grip magazine well
the general look of the gun Barrett
video this one the 27 inch semi fluted
barrel at the front end we have a
purpose-designed muzzle break Barrett's
say this will reduce the recoil to that
of a 20-gauge shotgun we'll see if that
works or not there's no other recoil
control in this gun at all it probably
doesn't need it the upper receiver is
one solid piece of a high-strength
aluminium alloy with a full-length
Picatinny rail so as you can see scope
mounting in terms of strength and
integrity is not an issue
plus there's enough rail here to put
night vision on at the front they've
also included a short length of
Picatinny rail for now
other things like a torch there's QD
sling swivel sleds so you can sling the
rifle the gun weighs approximately 13
pounds unloaded without a scope on and
really it's not that heavy you could
carry it all day not you really want to
other features include adjustable cheek
piece for sorting out your head to scope
pipe if you're using a scope with a
large objective and high mounts also
included which is a very good idea is a
monopod clicks down and it's fine
adjustable by a screw thread this then
allows you in conjunction with the
Harris bipod which comes with a rifle
literally set the rifle up as you want
it lock it off all you have to do then
is get behind the gun aim and shoot
there's no weight to hold or anything
which will contribute direct
contribution the rig here is a rubber
recoil pad which can be removed and
spacers can be fitted if you want to
increase the length of pull feed is from
a ten round magazine which is quite
generous for this sort of rifle snaps in
like that magazine releases there comes
straight out again the action is a
simple turn bolt push forward lock down
lift up eject safety catch is like an
m16 fire safe nice wide trigger which is
fully adjustable the scope i've picked
for this test is a Leopold
four-and-a-half to fifteen four and a
half to fourteen by fifty long-range
target LRT with m1 turrets illuminated
TMR reticle the reticle is a modified
mil dot which is essential if you're
using this gun in a sniper type rola
long-range role as you can use the mil
dot to
the termini range also determine windage
correction and range correction I'm
really looking forward to shooting this
gun so let's get on with it
okay we soon arrived on the bench let's
see how this thing shoots I'm really
looking forward to this is going to be
fun
Lock and Load oh yes that's a 98 Bravo
oh heck of a lot of fun